---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Introduce Yourself"
tag: outreachy
---
### A brief introduction...

Hello! I'm Roberto Garcia. I am a third year undergraduate student studying Philosophy and Computer Science. While I currently reside in Scotland in the UK, I was born and raised in Mexico. I'll be working with the Wikimedia Foundation on the project "What's in a Name?".

### My three core values:
My three core values are curiousity, creativity, and empathy.

I am a very curious person: I'm committed to understanding the entirety of *how* and *why* something works the way it does. I believe knowledge is one of the richest experiences we have access to as human beings, and one we should consciously appreciate in the world around us.

I *really* value creativity. I think basically all *fun* experiences in the world arise through creative engagement, and having fun makes life worth living!!! Creativity also allows for more fruitful and profound insight about one's environment.

Finally, I consider empathy to be of utmost importance. Empathy is the basis of meaningful human connection, and allows for preexisting relationships to overcome hardship. Empathy also leads to solutions that consider *all* humans, not only those we've come to (incorrectly) consider the 'baseline' of human experience.

### Why Outreachy?
Outreachy appealed to me for a variety of reasons. I really value OS software, and consider it to be representative of the good that technology can offer to the world at a time when **so** many tech companies are blatantly cruel and self-centered. Admittedly, I've become very pessimistic about the tech industry, and believed an organisation like Outreachy could help restore some faith. I am also genuinely passionate about the work the Wikimedia Foundation is involved in, and am very pleased to be a part of it!

I also enjoy the remote-work and flexible aspects of the internship. As mentioned by my co-intern Feliciss, money never hurts, too!!!

