---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Career Opportunities"
tag: outreachy
---
This week, Outreachy interns are encouraged to talk about their career goals. As a student about to enter my final year at university, I've been thinking about this a lot - contemplating how I can use the skills I've learnt both at university and during Outreachy to move into a career I find interesting.

Within tech, I'm still interested in quite a lot of fields. This internship has heavily increased my desire to work in the spheres of data analysis and manipulation. Wikidata has also made me very interested in archival and restorative work. To help improve the breadth and quality of information available on the internet - an environment filled to brim with deeply disorganised information - is something I find both highly interesting and valuable.

As someone with a passion for the arts, I am also interested in getting involved in the video game industry. I am also interested in applying my tech skills into other hard sciences, particularly neuroscience and biology.

I am currently looking for a part-time job, a grant, or open volunteer positions within the Open Source community. I've come to enjoy the principles and environment in Open Source environments and would be very pleased to continue being a part of it.

I have experience in a wide array of programming languages, with Python and Java being my specialties. I also have experience with both complex formal CS, data science, and software engineering. I am an experienced public speaker and writer, so I am also very happy to help with documentation. I am also a fluent Spanish and English speaker. 

Overall: I'm fairly flexible in my career goals, but am non-negiotably solely interested towards areas in technology whose impact is human - not profit - oriented.
